## Routes and Controllers in Rails

Today we talked about

* the `routes.rb` file in Rails
* the purpose of a controller in Rails
* how to use `resources :things` to create eight RESTful routes

### Your Tasks

1) Read the [Rails Routing documentation](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html). It's a pretty easy read!

2) Create a new rails project called `routes-practice`. 

3) Add a route to your `config/routes.rb` file that maps a `GET` request to `/students` with the `students_controller`'s `index` method.


4) Add the corresponding controller and method within that controller that renders the text: "You've hit the students index page."

5) Modify your routes file to add all eight routes for a `Course` resource. Remember - you don't need to do this manualy, Rails has a shortcut for you, but for now we'd like for you to write it manually and also explore the shortcut.

6) Add a controller and all methods that the controller will need in order to use the routes generated by this. Don't worry about rendering text. Just make sure you have all the (empty) methods defined. 

7) Modify your routes file to add all eight routes for a `Teacher` resource.

8) Can you add code to the end of the `resources :teachers` line in order to only create the `show` and `index` routes instead of all eight routes generated by `resources`? 

9) Add a controller for `teachers` and ensure that the `show` and `index` actions work. 

10) Add a root path so that we can navigate to `http://localhost:3000/` and not get an error. Have this route go to the `index` action in a welcome controller. Create the corresponding controller and action, and test out the root by starting your server and navigating to `'/'`. 

11) With `resources :teachers` you typically access a single teacher with a numeric ID like `/teachers/6`. Can you make it so their last name is used instead of the numeric ID (like `/teachers/warbelow`) and I can access `params[:last_name]`? Use [this blog post](http://blog.teamtreehouse.com/creating-vanity-urls-in-rails) and/or [this Stack Overflow answer](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6592038/change-the-name-of-the-id-parameter-in-routing-resources-for-rails). These blog posts go into depth on overwriting a method (`to_param`) in your model, but since we don't have a model, you don't need to worry about that part. 

### Extension:

12) What does the following piece of code do? How do you have to modify your controllers in order to access these routes?

```
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  namespace :school do
    resources :teachers
  end
end
```
